## IPC in Linux 

IPC is used to communicate between the processes. It can be parent, child or one to many between processes.

## Types 

1.  Signal 
2.  Pipes 
3.  FIFO / Named pipes 
4.  Message Queues 
5.  Shared memory 
6.  Semaphores 

## 1. Signals

-   Signal is a notification of an event occurence. 
-   Signal is also known as a trap or a software interrupt. 
-   Signals can be generated by a user, a process or a kernel. 
-   A process is supposed to handle the signal. 
-   9-15 signals are termination signals which the process cannot handle and are immediately crashed-out.

## 2. Pipes 

-   Pipes are half-duplex (only read/write in one direction)

Eg: 
```sh
ls -lR ./ | more
```
Here the output of `ls` command is piped to the input of `more` command. 

## 3. FIFO (Named Pipes)

-   Named Pipes are half-duplex (only read/write in one direction)

Example: 
```sh
# Create a file
mkfifo mypipe
# Process 1 writes to the file
echo "Hello Pipe World" > mypipe
# Process 2 read the file 
cat mypipe
```
Here the process1 will hang/wait till process 2 reads. 

## 4. Message Queues 

-   They are created using a syscall and are handled by a kernel. 
-   Once a message is read it is deleted by the kernel. 
-   Each read and write is created by the kernel. 
-   Message queue does not have the issue of race conditions i.e multiple writers and multiple readers can operate at once. 
-   Since it uses syscalls it is not that efficient. 

## 5. Shared Memory 

-   It is full duplex, i.e either process can read or write. 
-   Most efficient type of IPC, does not require any kernel intervention once shared memory has been allocated/deallocated. 
-   Any number of processes can read or write to the same memory segment. 
-   Processes must manage shared memory i.e alloc or dealloc
-   Processes must protect shared memory from being written or race conditions might occur. 
-   To avoid Race conditions process can use shynchronization techniques. 

## 6. Semaphores 

-   They are used to protect critical/common regions of memory shared between multiple processes. 
-   2 Types of semaphores: 
    1.  Binary - Only 2 states 0 or 1 i.e locked or unlocked 
    2.  Counting semaphores - Allows resource counters. i.e how many processes are using this resource.